## 05. Using pattern matching

In some of the previous recipes, we've been using the `=` operator. When we execute something like `a = 1`, we are not performing an assignment; we are, instead, binding the value `1` to `a`.
This is actually pattern matching in its simplest form. The `=` operator is, in fact, called the match operator.

### Getting ready

Start a new `IEx`  session in your console.

### How to do it...

To exercise our pattern matching techniques, we will follow these steps:
1. Let's create a keyword list with our friend's birthdays:
```elixir
iex(1)> birthday_list = [andrew: "October 2nd", jim: "May 1st", carrie: "September 23rd", Carla: "August 30th"]
[andrew: "October 2nd", jim: "May 1st", carrie: "September 23rd", carla: "August 30th"]
```

2. Now, we will be getting the first element of the list (also known as head of the list):
```elixir
iex(2)> [head|tail] = birthday_list
[andrew: "October 2nd", jim: "May 1st", carrie: "September
23rd",carla: "August 30th"]
iex(3)> head
{:andrew, "October 2nd"}
```

3. All the other values (the tail of the list) are bound to the tail variable:
```elixir
iex(4)> tail
[jim: "May 1st", carrie: "September 23rd", carla: "August 30th"]
```

4. Let's get the head of the tail! Confusing? Think of the tail as a list and we will get the first element of that list:
```elixir
iex(5)> [tail_head|tail_tail] = tail
[jim: "May 1st", carrie: "September 23rd", carla: "August 30th"]
```

 5. Sometimes while performing pattern matching, some values do not interest us. We will get the first element of our birthday list and ignore all the other elements:
 ```elixir
iex(7)> [first_friend|_] = birthday_list
[andrew: "October 2nd", jim: "May 1st", carrie: "September 23rd",
carla: "August 30th"]
iex(8)> first_friend
{:andrew, "October 2nd"}
```

6. Now, let's try to access the `_` variable from our previous match:
```elixir
iex(9)> _
** (CompileError) iex:9: unbound variable _
```

7. How about getting the birthday of the first friend in the list? Take a look:
```elixir
iex(10)> [{_, day}|t] = birthday_list
[andrew: "October 2nd", jim: "May 1st", carrie: "September 23rd",
carla: "August 30th"]
iex(11)> day
"October 2nd"
```

### How it works...

We started by defining a keyword list just like we did in the Creating and manipulating keyword lists recipe.

In step 2, we pattern matched our birthday_list into `head` and `tail`. The `head` variable is the first element of our keyword list and tail contains all other elements. If we take a closer look, `head` is a tuple and `tail` is a keyword list. We checked the `tail` variable's contents in step 3.

Lists are recursively defined, so in step 4, we pattern match again. However, this time, instead of using the original `birthday_list`, we use `tail`. This time, `tail_head` is, in fact, the second element of the original `birthday_list`.

Step 5 illustrates the use of a "don't care" variable (`_`). We use this when the values matched are not of any interest to us. It is kind of a black hole where we send data that we don't care about.
