# 4. Getting help and accessing documentation within IEx

---

```elixir
$ iex
Erlang/OTP 20 [erts-9.2] [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4] [ds:4:4:10] [async-threads:10] [hipe] [kernel-poll:false]

Interactive Elixir (1.6.0) - press Ctrl+C to exit (type h() ENTER for help)
iex(1)> h
```
```text

                                  IEx.Helpers

Welcome to Interactive Elixir. You are currently seeing the documentation for
the module IEx.Helpers which provides many helpers to make Elixir shell more
joyful to work with.

This message was triggered by invoking the helper h(), usually referred to as
h/0 (since it expects 0 arguments).

You can use the h/1 function to invoke the documentation for any Elixir module
or function:

    iex> h(Enum)
    iex> h(Enum.map)
    iex> h(Enum.reverse/1)

You can also use the i/1 function to introspect any value you have in the
shell:

    iex> i("hello")

There are many other helpers available, here are some examples:

  • b/1            - prints callbacks info and docs for a given module
  • c/1            - compiles a file into the current directory
  • c/2            - compiles a file to the given path
  • cd/1           - changes the current directory
  • clear/0        - clears the screen
  • exports/1      - shows all exports (functions + macros) in a module
  • flush/0        - flushes all messages sent to the shell
  • h/0            - prints this help message
  • h/1            - prints help for the given module, function or macro
  • i/0            - prints information about the last value
  • i/1            - prints information about the given term
  • ls/0           - lists the contents of the current directory
  • ls/1           - lists the contents of the specified directory
  • open/1         - opens the source for the given module or function in
    your editor
  • pid/1          - creates a PID from a string
  • pid/3          - creates a PID with the 3 integer arguments passed
  • ref/1          - creates a Reference from a string
  • ref/4          - creates a Reference with the 4 integer arguments
    passed
  • pwd/0          - prints the current working directory
  • r/1            - recompiles the given module's source file
  • recompile/0    - recompiles the current project
  • runtime_info/0 - prints runtime info (versions, memory usage, stats)
  • v/0            - retrieves the last value from the history
  • v/1            - retrieves the nth value from the history

Help for all of those functions can be consulted directly from the command line
using the h/1 helper itself. Try:

    iex> h(v/0)

To list all IEx helpers available, which is effectively all exports (functions
and macros) in the IEx.Helpers module:

    iex> exports(IEx.Helpers)

This module also includes helpers for debugging purposes, see IEx.break!/4 for
more information.

To learn more about IEx as a whole, type h(IEx).
```

```elixir
iex(2)> h(c/2)
```
```text
                        def c(files, path \\ :in_memory)

Compiles the given files.

It expects a list of files to compile and an optional path to write the
compiled code to (defaults to the current directory). When compiling one file,
there is no need to wrap it in a list.

It returns the names of the compiled modules.

If you want to recompile an existing module, check r/1 instead.

## Examples

    iex> c(["foo.ex", "bar.ex"], "ebin")
    [Foo, Bar]

    iex> c("baz.ex")
    [Baz]

iex(3)> h Enum

                                      Enum

Provides a set of algorithms that enumerate over enumerables according to the
Enumerable protocol.

    iex> Enum.map([1, 2, 3], fn(x) -> x * 2 end)
    [2, 4, 6]

Some particular types, like maps, yield a specific format on enumeration. For
example, the argument is always a {key, value} tuple for maps:

    iex> map = %{a: 1, b: 2}
    iex> Enum.map(map, fn {k, v} -> {k, v * 2} end)
    [a: 2, b: 4]

Note that the functions in the Enum module are eager: they always start the
enumeration of the given enumerable. The Stream module allows lazy enumeration
of enumerables and provides infinite streams.

Since the majority of the functions in Enum enumerate the whole enumerable and
return a list as result, infinite streams need to be carefully used with such
functions, as they can potentially run forever. For example:

    Enum.each Stream.cycle([1, 2, 3]), &IO.puts(&1)
```

```elixir
iex(4)> h Enum.map
```
```text

                            def map(enumerable, fun)

    @spec map(t(), (element() -> any())) :: list()

Returns a list where each item is the result of invoking fun on each
corresponding item of enumerable.

For maps, the function expects a key-value tuple.

## Examples

    iex> Enum.map([1, 2, 3], fn(x) -> x * 2 end)
    [2, 4, 6]

    iex> Enum.map([a: 1, b: 2], fn({k, v}) -> {k, -v} end)
    [a: -1, b: -2]

iex(5)>
```
