## 06. Pattern matching an HTTPoison response

`HTTPoison` is an HTTP client for Elixir. We have already used it in the Managing dependencies recipe of `Chapter 1, Command Line`.

In this recipe, we will create a simple application that will take a URL and fetch the corresponding page, returning either the body or the headers of that request.

### Getting ready

We will be using the get_pages application. You will find it in the source code of this book. The steps are as follows:

1. Enter the application directory:
```elixir
$ cd get_pages
```

2. Fetch the dependencies and compile them:
```elixir
$ mix deps.get && mix deps.compile
```

3. Start the application:
```elixir
$ iex –S mix
```

### How to do it...

To get an HTTP response and perform pattern matching on it, we will follow these steps:
1. Issue a request to fetch the elixir-lang main page and take the headers from the response:
```elixir
iex(1)> GetPages.get(:headers, "http://elixir-lang.com")
```

The result is shown in the following screenshot:
```elixir
[
  {"Server", "nginx"},
  {"Date", "Sat, 28 Apr 2018 21:20:34 GMT"},
  {"Content-Type", "text/html; charset=utf-8"},
  {"Content-Length", "46"},
  {"Connection", "keep-alive"},
  {"Location", "http://elixir-lang.org/"},
  {"X-Served-By", "Namecheap URL Forward"}
]
iex(2)>
```

2. Now, we will request the main Google page and take the body from the response:
```elixir
iex(2)> GetPages.get(:body, "https://www.google.com")
```

3. What if we try to get something other than the body or the headers from the response? Take a look:
```elixir
iex(3)> GetPages.get(:something, "http://elixir-lang.com")
Section unavailable or not known!
:ok
```

### How it works...

To see pattern matching in action, open the get_pages/lib/get_pages.ex file, which has the following content:
```elixir
   defmodule GetPages do
     def get(element, url \\ "http://elixir-lang.org") do
       case element do
         :headers ->
           %{headers: headers} = fetch_url(url)
           headers
         :body ->
           %{:body => body} = fetch_url(url)
           body
         _ ->
           IO.puts "Section unavailable or not known!"
       end
    end

    defp fetch_url(url)  do
       HTTPoison.get(url)
    end
end
```

We will start by examining the `fetch_url(url)` function. This function is defined with `defp` instead of `def`, which means that this function is private; it can only be invoked from within the `GetPages` module. It receives a string representing a URL and then invokes
the `HTTPoison`  app that we declared as a dependency. The return result is a map named `HTTPoison.Response`, containing body and headers keys.

The `fetch_url` function is invoked by the get function.

The `get` function accepts an atom to determine what section of the response we wish to
retrieve (`:headers` or `:body`) and a string defining the desired page's URL.

In the `def get(element, url \\ "http://elixir-lang. org")` function definition, we have `\\` after the URL. This is called a default argument. If no value is provided, the function will default to the one defined after `\\`.
This means that `GetPages.get(:body, "http://elixir-lang. org")` is equivalent to GetPages.get(:body).

Pattern matching takes place in the case element do section.

The `If` element matches `:headers`; we then retrieve the value under the `:headers` key
in the response, assigning it to the headers variable and returning it.

The `Else` if element matches `:body`; we then retrieve the value under the `:body` key in
the response, assigning it to the body variable and returning it.

The `Else` element was not captured in the previous matches, so we will issue a message to inform the user. The `_` variable in pattern matching means that we don't care for the value and, in this case, it is a match-all operator.

Previously, we highlighted If, Else if, and Else to make clear that pattern matching actually replaces the need for these constructs!

Pattern matching also takes place in `%{:headers => headers} = fetch_url(url)` and `%{:body => body} = fetch_url(url)`. The `fetch_url(url)` function on the right-hand side of the match operator (=) returns a map, and by declaring a map `(%{})` on the left-hand side of the match operator, we are taking only the `:headers` or `:body` key and assigning its value to a variable.
